---
layout: post
title:  "Gluten Free Japan"
date:   2024-04-17 11:25:25 -0800
categories: travel
---


* Do not remove this line (it will not be displayed)
{:toc}

# Itinerary

## Tokyo - Day 1

## Tokyo - Day 2

## Tokyo - Day 3

## Osaka - Day 1

## Osaka - Day 2

## Osaka - Day 3


# Gluten Free

## Gluten Free Curry - Tokyo

[CURRY HOUSE CoCo ICHIBANYA](https://www.ichibanya.co.jp/english/) We arrived in Tokyo at about 6PM. After our 13 hour flight we settled in and had our goals set on getting some food and then maybe a drink and going to bed by 9PM. We decied to try because they were going to be quick without much wait and we wanted to try the gluten free curry. They have an allergen free curry that is issentially the curry base with vegtables on top of rice and the curry comes in its own seperated packet so you can be sure that its safe to eat. This was a great dish that only needed extra spice but it was a great option for quick hot meal.

## Gluten Free Pancakes - Tokyo

[Riz Labo](https://www.rizlabo.com/) This place was amazing! We got some gluten free pancakes here but they also do gluten free crepes. Their menu changes based on the day and ingredients that are in season. We got some strawberry matcha pancakes that were the fluffiest pancakes we have ever had! The matcha was a delicous combination and the strawberries tasted so fresh and sweet. I suggest going to the website and looking at the menu. The location was a little inconspicous to find however after some google images and maps we were able to find it. They opened at 12 and there was already a line so I suggest getting their a little bit earlier to avoid waiting to long.

## Gluten Free Ramen - Tokyo

[Gluten Free T's](https://glutenfree.co.jp/home-en/). We went here for some gluten free ramen that was in a dedicated gluten free kitchen. I think we can all relate to feeling at ease in a place that is dedicated gluten free. We can keep those dreaded antibodies down in a place like this. The menu had Cajun Friend Chicken and Gyoza so we made sure to pick up those in addition to the the ramen and chicken. We also decided to wash it all down with a cocktail and some beers. It was a delightful experience and I recommend adding some spice to your meal with their in house hot sauce. The server we had spoke fluent english so communication for us was quite easy. This was overall a very relaxing and delicious experience and with little anxiety for us celiacs with an all gluten free kitchen.

## Gluten Free Sushi - Tokyo

[Otsuna Sushi](https://otsuna-sushi.com/) This sushi place was delicious! We messaged them on [instagram](https://www.instagram.com/otsunasushi1875/) to reserve seating and prepicked our menus. They have a specific gluten free menu you can order from. We ordered the OMAKASE special. The sushi was so fresh and delicious. The assortment of tastes was wonderful and I especially enjoyed the tuna belly. We also ordered a bottle of wine and some sake to go with this meal and really enjoyed the presentation, the abmience and overall atmoshphere of this place. Highly recommend reaching out and getting a reservation and menu picked and check this place out.

## Gluten Free Okonomiyaki - Osaka

[Oko Osaka](https://www.oko-osaka.com/english-menu) This place has some character!! WOW! I really enjoyed this spot, there owner is also the cook, the server, the bartender(sorta), and the cashier. I would recommend getting here early and prepare your self for a good time. From the writing covered walls, to the chicken you squeeze when you pay for drinks, this place was truly unique and the food is hearty and delicious. Okonomiyaki is a japanese pancake made from wheat flour batter and other ingredients cooked on a teppan. Common additions include cabbage, meat, and seafood, and toppings include okonomiyaki sauce, aonori, katsuobushi, Japanese mayonnaise, and pickled ginger. This place however uses soybean flour so its gluten free for a lot of options. There are some meats that are marinated in gluten containing sauces but you can easily avoid them and get a delicous meal. There are also vegan and vegetarian options. 

## Gluten Free Soba - Osaka 
[https://genjisoba.co.jp/menu](Genji Soba) This was a cool little spot right in Namba city. We were determined to try some gluten free soba noodles in Japan since we often make them at home. Soba noodles can very easily be made without gluten as they are made primarily out of buckwheat at 80% buckwheat and 20% wheat. Be sure to look at their menu for the gluten free options and they will accomadate. They will even boil the noodles in specific gluten free pot if its not busy so I recommend going early if you are sensitive or celiac. You can also point at the items you want on the menu as they are marked gluten free and that worked for us.

## Gluten Free Beef Plate - Osaka
[Matsusaka M Umeda Fukushima Branch](https://www.matsusaka-projects.com/english/) We have never had the quality of beef like the cuts that were served here. It was incredible! We reached out before hand and they let us know that they did have some gluten free options where the meat was not marinated. We had to reach out through whatsapp which may be fine for others but not something we use often. The staff was super accomadating and helped pick out what our options were. We had never been to a Japanese BBQ place before and were suprised to see the grill in the middle of the table where you cook the cuts of meat they give by yourself. This was an awesome change of pace and we really enjoyed this aspect of the restaurant. It was not difficult to cook the meat as it cooked quickly and was so tender and delicious. If you are a meat eater please please please go checkout this place for yourself.

## Gluten Free Pastry - Osaka 
[comeconoco](https://comeconoco.com/en/cafe/) This little cafe was a two for one! We also scheduled a cooking class with the owner which we did so by messaging on instagram. In the cooking class we made sushi, chicken karage, sesame salad, and seaweed seasoned potatoes. We learned so much about how to make these dishes that we were able to replicate it once we got back home and also learned some interesting tricks to cooking such as how to judge the temperature of cooking oil with chopsticks! Huge fan of the cooking class and we decided to go check out the cafe on another day. We ordered the lunch and some cheesecake, the lunch consisted of a ham and cheese sandwhich, tomatoe bisque, and two scones. The cheesecake was a traditional new york cheesecake. Everything here is made from rice flour and the owners family owns a farm that produces the rice they utilize. Highly recommend reaching out and taking a cooking class and checking out this wonderful cafe.

## Gluten Free Lunch - Kyoto

## Gluten Free Sushi - Kyoto







